
Michael C. McGlynn

    Providence RI
    (401) 345-2906
    mike@reignition.net

I am an expert in web technology, including full-stack development, marketing technology, performance, scalability and people management. I'm adept at both written and spoken communication.

In my 25+ years of experience, I've worked with a wide variety of web technologies, developing a keen sense for what works in order to deliver online experiences that drive outcomes.
Experience

    Senior Director of Digital Development
    May 2022 – present
    Zuri Group
    Bend, OR

As a Senior Director, I manage both the digital developers and the client success staff. My time is split 70/30 between people management and client work.

I manage six direct reports. At Zuri Group this entails ensuring that KPIs are met, that work is properly scoped and scheduled and professional development is fostered by mentorship and evaluation.

As a developer in this role, my work spans Zuri Groups digital practice, the enterprise CRM Blackbaud CRM, Google Marketing Cloud and project direction.

In that capacity, I am a hands-on developer developing solutions for WordPress, Blackbaud Internet Solutions (BBIS) and Blackbaud CRM as well as a host of other services that the company provides.


    Senior Developer
    October 2021 – May 2022
    Zuri Group
    Bend, OR

Working remotely as a developer, I built customizations of the Blackbaud CRM and the associated Blackbaud Internet Solutions products.

My accomplishments extended to the digital marketing side of the business, providing consulting services and development for WordPress websites and Google Marketing Platform implementations.

As a Senior Developer I also provided mentorship to project managers, new junior developers and functional consultants.

    Associate Director of Web & Interactive
    March 2016 – September 2021
    Wheaton College
    Norton, MA

Hands-on manager of Marketing & Communication’s web marketing channels and manage my two direct reports in support of these efforts.

Key contributions

    Brought transformational change to the college’s web infrastructure resulting in dramatically improved uptime and performance, with benchmarks far ahead of peer institutions.
    Implemented web development best practices including source control, overhauled governance.
    Lead the college’s web accessibility efforts across the college’s public websites.
    Served as technical lead for the college’s website redesign including training and documentation for all staff.
    Managed all third-party vendor contracts and relationships.
    Oversaw all website technical infrastructure including Pantheon, WP Engine and Amazon AWS.
    Lead the content strategy and web development of the college's portal.
    Provided analytics and dashboards for the college’s online marketing activity.

    Senior Web Developer
    August 2015 – March 2016
    Wheaton College
    Norton, MA

Served as the technical lead for Wheaton’s Web Strategy team, managing the Web Developer position. Promoted to Associate Director after 6 months.

Key contributions

    Performed all maintenance and support of the college's digital channels.
    Worked with stakeholders across campus to define, create, and implement digital projects.
    Managed external consultants.
    Coordinated web development related activities of across campus.

    AIS Web
    Applications Developer
    March 2013 – July 2015
    Brown University
    Providence, RI

My responsibilities were to maintain the legacy fundraising systems, meanwhile implementing their replacement applications, Blackbaud CRM and Blackbaud BBIS.

Key contributions

    Wrote updates and feature enhancements to legacy .NET 2.0 applications.
    Came up to speed on the existing the 60+ applications maintained by Advancement.
    Worked with design team to build themes for Brown’s fundraising application and its TouchNet payment gateway.
    Completed TouchNet payment gateway training and oversaw uPay sites.
    Completed Blackbaud SDK training.

    SharePoint/Web Administrator
    June 2011 – March 2013
    Rhode Island School of Design
    Providence, RI

My position with RISD's Office of Information Technology (OIT) involved providing administrative support and development services for the institution’s SharePoint 2010 farms. I was also responsible for system integration solutions.

Key contributions

    Developed software including
        an authentication system to validate users against both RISD’s Active Directory and legacy Novell LDAP environments
        a SharePoint custom WCM (Web Content Management) site for the Service Desk’s public facing support documentation, replacing a legacy system
        a specialized medical referral application for use by RISD’s Student Development Office
    Created a design system and signature solution for all five OIT groups, including full branding of all Microsoft Office products used by the division.

    Web Developer/UI Integrator
    7/2007 - 6/2011
    Rhode Island School of Design
    Providence, RI

Key contributions

    Technical lead for the full-scale redesign and development of RISD's main website.
    Designed and developed a custom application that integrated the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system’s non-relational database data into to public website.
    Created the RISD Museum website.
    Installed, configured, and maintained the e-commerce solutions for both RISD’s college supply store and the RISD museum’s store.
    Led all RISD e-commerce websites through the PCI compliance process.

Education

    Northeastern University (5 semesters)
    University of Massachusetts Boston Campus (3 semesters)

Expertise

    Server-side languages: PHP, ASP.NET using C# and VB, ASP MVC5
    Database: Microsoft SQL Server, Transact-SQL, MySQL
    Server management: AWS cloud services (Lightsail, S3, Glacier, Simple Email Service, Route 53), IIS, Apache, NodeJS
    DOM: CSS, ES6, JQuery, npm, WebPack, Gulp, SASS
    Serialized data: XML (XSLT, XPath, DTD, RSS), JSON, YAML
    Content management: WordPress, Ellucian Luminis/Liferay, Symphony CMS, Blackbaud BBIS, Ektron CMS, SharePoint
    CRM: Blackbaud CRM, Engaging Networks
    Testing: Cypress.io, Selenium, Mocha
    Source control: Microsoft Team Foundation System, Git, Subversion, CVS
    Google Marketing Platform: GA4 and Universal Analytics, Data Studio, Tag Manager, Search Console
    Project management: Atlassian (Jira, Tempo, Structure), SmartSheets, HiBob

    References available upon request.
    Binary Formats: Microsoft Word | PDF

